----------------------

Version 1.5.6:

Four small bugs were fixed. Moosic has been placed in the public domain by way
of The Unlicense.

----------------------

Version 1.5.5:

Two fatal bugs that were casued by incompatible changes in the Python standard
library were fixed.

----------------------

Version 1.5.4:

An incompatibility which prevented moosicd from responding to requests
correctly when run with Python 2.5 was fixed. Another obscure and rarely
triggered bug was fixed.

----------------------

Version 1.5.3:

The "move-pattern" command and the -C option were added to the command-line
client. "move-pattern" moves all queued songs whose names match a regular
expression to a given position in the queue.  The -C option causes the current
song to be included in the output of the "list" and "plainlist" commands.

----------------------

Version 1.5.2:

The server now logs the total playing time whenever it finishes playing a song.
The server no longer saves state to disk if the state hasn't really changed.
Range arguments can now be bracketed by non-numeric characters to prevent
negative ranges from being mistaken for command line options. Various minor bugs
were fixed.

----------------------

Version 1.5.1:

New commands include "swap", "replace", "pl-replace", "interval-add", and
"toggle-advance". The program is now installed with distutils (i.e. a
"setup.py" script). By default, the client filters out songs that the server
doesn't know how to play before adding them to the queue. A different method is
used for automatically starting up the server. This new method doesn't use the
$MOOSICD environment variable, and doesn't depend on the presence of a
"moosicd" program at all. The code was organized into a package heirarchy that
should ease develpment for third-party client developers who use Python.

----------------------

Version 1.5.0:

The "help", "current-time", "advance", and "noadvance" commands were added to
moosic.  The "noplay", "sleep", and "wake" aliases were removed from moosic.
The next() and previous() server methods now behave differently.  The skip() and
current_time() server methods were added.  Most importantly, the hostname is no
longer appended to the names of the files stored in ~/.moosic/.  Client
developers must update their code with the new moosic_factory.py, and users who
want to use their old config and log files will have to rename them.

----------------------

Version 1.4.10:

The "ispaused", "islooping", and "isadvancing" moosic commands were added.  The
behavior of the "stagger" command was slightly changed.  Incompatibility bugs
with BSD and Mac OS X were fixed.  The documentation for the server's API was
cleaned up a bit.  Symlinks are now followed when scanning the music directory
with "--auto-grep" or "--auto-find".  The getconfig() server method was added.
The "--tcp-also" option was added to moosicd, making it possible to serve
requests via a Unix socket and a TCP socket at the same time.

----------------------

Version 1.4.9:

This release fixes a bug that was even stupider than the one fixed in the
previous release.  This bug prevented moosicd from running because an essential
module had been omitted from the build process.

----------------------

Version 1.4.8:

The code for the --auto-find feature wasn't compatible with Python 2.2, and
therefore crashed with an ugly exception.  The fix for this foolish bug was the
only change in this release.

----------------------

Version 1.4.7:

moosic can now automatically start moosicd as needed, so the user no longer has
to start it by hand.  The --ignore-case option was added to moosic to make
regular expressions case-insensitive.  The --auto-find and --auto-grep options
were added to moosic, allowing songs to be added with search strings instead of
file names.  moosicd now automatically puts itself into the background, as
proper daemons should do.

----------------------

Version 1.4.6:

The "sub" and "suball" commands were added, reflecting the new "sub" and
"sub_all" moosicd methods.  The "stop" moosicd method was added, and the "stop"
command now uses this method.  A race condition in the "previous" feature was
fixed, and it now accepts an argument to specify how far back to retreat.  The
Debian packaging was changed to improve compliance with the Debian Python policy
and to create a package that works with both the stable and the testing or
unstable distributions.  A pickling incompatibility between Python 2.2.x and
2.3 was worked around.

----------------------

Version 1.4.5:

The "previous" moosicd method and moosic command were added.  A bug in which the
"putback" moosicd method didn't update the value returned by the
"last_queue_update" moosicd method was fixed.  A small modification was made to
help the program run with Python 2.2.  The "wipe" moosic command was fixed to
work properly when loop mode is on.

----------------------

Version 1.4.4:

The "stagger-merge" moosic client command was added. The "replace",
"replace_range", and "last_queue_update" server methods were added. The
Moosic_API document now uses POD as its source format. The manpages are now
installed in a location that is compliant with FHS 2.2. A debian/ directory is
now included to let you build your own .deb package.

----------------------

Version 1.4.3:

The code for moosic was refactored to eliminate its horrendously long if-else
chain. Various small bug fixes and cleanups were made. Extraneous HTML
documentation is no longer included. The manpage for moosic was polished up. The
"stagger-add" command was added to moosic.

----------------------

Version 1.4.2:

An omission in version 1.4.1 which caused "moosicd --version" to raise a fatal
exception was fixed. A bug which prevented moosicd from saving the current song
when shutting down was fixed. A long-unnoticed bug was found, in which the
result of "moosic list -- -1" would be an empty list. This command now lists the
last song in the queue, as expected. The "length" moosic command was added.

----------------------

Version 1.4.1:

moosicd saves state on shutdown and reloads it on startup. A loop mode was
added. The "sort", "shuffle", and "reverse" commands can now be limited to a
specific range in the song queue. Finally, match group substition was
implemented in moosicd's song player. This allows you to insert portions of a
song's identifier into the command that plays the song. For example, if the
player configuration contains an entry with a regex of "^file://(.*?)\.(.*)$"
and a command of "foo -t \2 \1", a song name of "file:///var/music/song.mid"
will be played with a command line of "foo -t mid /var/music/song".

----------------------

Version 1.4:

The server now communicates with clients via the XML-RPC protocol, and the
server's API has been properly documented. Writing your own client for the
Moosic server in the programming language of your choice should now be quite
easy. Python version 2.2 or higher is now required. A few command aliases were
added ("pre", "del", and "status"). moosicd now cleans up stale socket files
automatically at startup, saving you the trouble of having to do it by hand. The
server log now mentions the priority of each logged message. Many tiny bugs were
fixed in various places.

----------------------
