=head1 NAME

moosicd - the server for the Moosic jukebox system.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<moosicd> B<--help>|B<-h>|B<--version>|B<-v>

B<moosicd> [B<--history-size>|B<-s> I<size>] [B<--config>|B<-c> I<directory>] [B<--quiet>|B<-q>|B<--debug>|B<-d>] [B<-S>|B<--stdout>] [B<-t>|B<--tcp> I<port>] [B<-T>|B<--tcp-also> I<port>] [B<-l>|B<--local-only>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<moosicd> is the server for the Moosic jukebox system. It sits around, waiting
to respond to commands given by a Moosic client (such as L<moosic>(1)). It
also maintains a queue of items to be played, and if this queue is not empty,
it pops off the first item from the head of the queue and executes a
user-configurable command on that item. When this command terminates,
B<moosicd> goes on to the next item in its queue, assuming that the queue is
not empty.

B<moosicd> is not meant to be used as a system-wide daemon that serves all users
on a system.  Rather, every user that wishes to use Moosic should start a
separate instance of B<moosicd>, and one user cannot communicate with the Moosic
server of another user without taking special measures (i.e. using the B<-c> or
B<-t> options to B<moosic>).

=head1 OPTIONS

B<moosicd> is designed so that you normally don't need to use any of these
options.

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Prints help text and exits.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Prints version information and exits.

=item B<-s> I<size>, B<--history-size> I<size>

B<moosicd> remembers the file names of previous songs that it played. This
option sets the maximum size of this history list. The default value is 50.

=item B<-f>, B<--foreground>

By default, B<moosicd> detaches itself from the current terminal and puts itself
in the background (i.e. it becomes a daemon).  This option disables such
behavior.

=item B<-S>, B<--stdout>

By default, B<moosicd> logs almost all of its printed output to a file. When
this option is used, the output is instead printed to the standard output
device. This also prevents the program from putting itself in the background and
detaching from the current terminal.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

This option suppresses almost all printed output from B<moosicd>. Note that, by
default, B<moosicd> prints this output to a file, not the standard output
device.

=item B<-d>, B<--debug>

This option causes B<moosicd> to print lots and lots of messages about what
it's doing. These messages are usually quite superfluous and bothersome. Note
that unless the B<-S> option is used these messages will appear in the log file
instead of the standard output device.

=item B<-c> I<directory>, B<--config> I<directory>

Specifies the directory where moosicd should keep the various files that it
uses. The default directory is F<~/.moosic/>. This option is useful only in
extraordinary circumstances. If this option is used, any Moosic clients that
wish to communicate with B<moosicd> must be told to use the specified directory
instead of the default.

=item B<-t> I<port>, B<--tcp> I<port>

This option directs the server to listen to the given TCP port number for client
requests instead of using the normal communication method.  Use of this option
without the B<-l> option is I<highly discouraged> unless you know what you are
doing because there is no guarantee that B<moosicd> is secure against malicious
input from a remote location.  Note that an instance of B<moosicd> which is
started with this option will not accept requests from a client that is using
the normal communication method.

=item B<-T> I<port>, B<--tcp-also> I<port>

This option directs the server to listen to the given TCP port number for client
requests in addition to using the normal communication method.  Use of this
option without the B<-l> option is I<highly discouraged> unless you know what
you are doing because there is no guarantee that B<moosicd> is secure against
malicious input from a remote location.

=item B<-l>, B<--local-only>

This directs the server to only listen for TCP connections that originate from
the local computer, refusing connections from remote hosts.  This only has an
effect when B<--tcp> or B<--tcp-also> is used.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<moosicd> figures out how to play items in its queue by consulting its
configuration file, which associates string patterns (in the form of
Perl-compatible regular expressions) with commands.

The format of this file is as follows: Every pair of lines forms a unit. The
first line in a pair is a regular expression that will be matched against items
in the queue. The second line in a pair is the command that will be used to play
any items that match the regular expression. The name of the item to be played
will be appended to the end of this command, unless the command line includes a
special substitution string.

The simplest kind of substitution string is "$item".  Every occurrence of
"$item" in the command will be replaced with the name of the song to be played.
The other kind of substitution is called "matched group substitution", and is
used to refer to specific parts of the name of the song to be played.

The command will not be interpreted by a shell, so don't bother trying to use
shell variables or globbing or I/O redirection, and be mindful of how you use
quotes and parentheses.  If you need any of these fancy features, wrap up the
command in a real shell script (and remember to use an "exec" statement in your
shell script to invoke the program that does the actual song playing, otherwise
Moosic won't be able to do things like stop or pause the song).

Blank lines and lines starting with a '#' character are ignored. Regular
expressions specified earlier in this file take precedence over those specified
later.

=head1 FILES

B<moosicd> makes use of several files, all of which are found in the
F<.moosic/> directory in the home directory of the user who invoked the
program (unless the -c or --config option is used).

=over

=item F<config>

This is the configuration file that B<moosicd> uses to associate file-types to
player commands, as explained above.

=item F<server_log>

B<moosicd> logs short notices of its activities to this file unless the B<-S>
option is used. It usually contains nothing more than a history of what songs
have been played.

=item F<player_log>

This file contains the output of the player commands which are spawned by
B<moosicd>.

=item F<socket>

This is a socket file which is (normally) used to allow Moosic clients to
contact the Moosic server. If B<moosicd> isn't shut down properly, this file
will need to be removed by hand. You should leave this file alone under other
circumstances.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<moosic>(1), the standard command-line Moosic client.

The chapter entitled "Regular Expression Syntax"
L<http://www.python.org/doc/current/lib/re-syntax.html> from the section dealing
with the B<re> module in the I<Python Library Reference>, for details on the
syntax of a regular expression.

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Pearson <daniel@nanoo.org>
