=head1 Section 5: Writing a Moosic Client in Another Language

If you are not using Python to write your Moosic client, the first issue to deal
with is deciding upon an XML-RPC implementation.  For most popular programming
languages, there are multiple XML-RPC implementations available.  Most of the
possibilities are listed at
L<http://www.xmlrpc.com/directory/1568/implementations>.  Since XML-RPC is an
open specification, you can create your own implementation if you don't like any
of the ones that already exist.

Once you've got an XML-RPC library that you like, the big hurdle to overcome is
to make that library send its RPC calls over a Unix socket instead of an IP
socket.  I was able to do this pretty easily with Python's xmlrpclib since it is
designed to allow pluggable transport methods:  all I had to do was subclass my
own Transport type and plug it back into the original library's classes.  (If
your language and/or library of choice makes this task difficult, then you may
begin to understand why some Python programmers are so smug.)

After you are capable of sending XML-RPC requests through a Unix socket, you can
go ahead and start sending requests to a Moosic server.  Refer to the end of
section 2 for information on how to address a Moosic server.  Refer to section 3
for a list of valid server requests.

If you can't be bothered to find or hack together an XML-RPC library that works
with Unix sockets, then you can still talk to a Moosic server that is listening
on an IP socket, but this is less than ideal since listening on an IP socket is
not default behavior for most Moosic servers.

