=head1 Section 6: API Version History (ChangeLog)

=over

=item * S<1.8>

First implemented in moosicd 1.5.1. The following methods were added:

    swap

=item * S<1.7>

First implemented by moosicd 1.5.0. The following methods were added:

    skip, current_time

The following methods had their behavior significantly changed:

    previous, next

Specifically, the previous() method no longer activates queue advancement if it
had been disabled before.  This means that calling previous() no longer
necessarily causes a song to start playing.  The next() method was changed to
more closely parallel the behavior of previous(): it takes a single optional
integer argument to allow immediate advancement by more than one song at a time,
and it has an effect even when no song is currently playing.  The new skip()
method implements the exact same behavior that was previously exhibited by
next().

Last, and most importantly, the name of the default socket file for
communicating with the server via unix sockets was changed from
$CONFIG_DIR/socket-$HOSTNAME to $CONFIG_DIR/socket.  If you are a Python
programmer and you use the updated moosic_factory.py file from Moosic version
1.5.0, then you don't have to make any changes.  Otherwise, you must change your
client's code to connect to the file named "socket" instead of the file named
"socket-something.example.com".  If your client only talks to the Moosic server
through TCP/IP, then you don't have to make any changes, of course.

=item * S<1.6>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.10. The following methods were added:

    getconfig

=item * S<1.5>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.6. The following methods were added:

    sub, sub_all, stop

=item * S<1.4>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.5. The following methods were added:

    previous

=item * S<1.3>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.4. The following methods were added:

    replace, replace_range, last_queue_update

=item * S<1.2>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.2. The following methods were added:

    cut_list, crop_list

=item * S<1.1>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.1. The following methods were added:

    is_looping, set_loop_mode, toggle_loop_mode

=item * S<1.0>

First implemented by moosicd 1.4.0. The following methods were included:

    api_version, append, clear, crop, current, cut, die, filter,
    get_history_limit, halt_queue, haltqueue, history, indexed_list, insert,
    is_paused, is_queue_running, length, list, move, move_list, next, no_op,
    pause, prepend, putback, queue_length, reconfigure, remove, reverse,
    run_queue, runqueue, set_history_limit, showconfig, shuffle, sort,
    system.listMethods, system.methodHelp, system.methodSignature,
    system.multicall, toggle_pause, unpause, version

=back
